All right in this example here you want to see if you can calculate the resistance.
So let's see if you can calculate the resistance of 3 meters of 14 gauge copper wire.
You can hit pause right now and see if you can go ahead and calculate what the overall total resistance
is of this wire.
I'm looking for that value right there.
Oh yeah.
Well the way I would do it again just recalling that it's the resistivity multiplied by the length and
divided by the cross-sectional area.
So as the copper wire for gauge 14 if you go look it up you can find in the previous slide here you
could find what the value of the diameter is and the value of the diameter for this wire is 1.6 to 8
millimeters.
So that's 10 of the minus 3 meters.
That means you can go ahead and write down the area the area is pi are squared.
If you want to write it in terms of the diameter pi d squared over four.
OK so you can go ahead and calculate that value in meters squared.
Now the value of the resistivity while the resistance of copper.
See you look it up.
I just wrote it down in the previous table to 1.7 times 10 to the minus 8 0 meters.
Our length is very straight forward three.
And now we know what the cross-section is based on the fact that it's a 14 gauge wire.
So now you plug everything into our resistance equation.
One point seven times ten to the minus eight multiplied by the length which is three.
All of this gets divided now by the cross-sectional area which is pi.
The diameter is one point six to eight times ten to the minus three and divided by four Let me just
put the four upstairs over here.
All right I went through and I calculated that and I got zero point zero to 5 ohms kind of nice to write
that as 25.
Move the decimal over three spots.
So that's 25 million ohms.
That should be the total resistance so pretty small but it's only 3 meters and it's got a pretty big
cross section.
And what else.
Well the resistivity is very very small right.
We're just looking at copper wire.
So it's not the end of the world.